# Day 1

### VARIABLES
#### What are variables?
- Variables are places where you can store data in memory. They associate a name with a value of a particular type. 
- They are called variables because they can change once set.
#### Why does swift have variables?
- Variables come in handy when you have to manipulate or transform data. If you want to change data saved in a variable, you will be allowed to do that. 
- You save the work of creating new variables because you can just update them. Example: 
``` swfit
var myVariable = 34
myVariable = 13

print(myVariable) // 13
```
- Variable names have to be unique, this is to prevent the error of hashing the same space in memory. Swift will be wondering if you're trying to modify an existing variable or trying to create a new one, so it won't run your code unless you adress this correctly. 

### STRINGS AND INTEGERS
### Int
- Int is a data type defined as whole numbers.
- If you have large numbers Swift lets you use underscores as commas (example: `8_000_000`)

### Strings
- String is a data type defined as letters and text.
- Standard strings using only double quotes `var text = "I'm a string"` and don't include explicit line breaks.
- 
#### Multi-line strings
- Use three double quote marks, and the string marks starts and end in a new line.
``` swift 
let text = """
This is a
Multi-line 
String 
"""
```
- Add \ to skip the line breaks (except to the last line).

#### String interpolation
- Ability to place variables inside your strings to make them more useful. Includes the name of a constant/variable as a placeholder in a longer string. Swift replaces the variable/constant with its value. Example:
``` swift
let finalScore = 85
var str = "Your final score was \(finalScore)"

print(str) // Your fianl score was 85
```

- This is a way of injecting custom data into strings at runtime. It replaces parts of a string with data provided by us.

### Type-safety 
- Swift will make sure we have no with our data. For example:
``` swift
var meaningOfLife = 42 
```
Initially `meaningOfLife` has a value of **42**, so Swift will assing the tipe *integer*, a whole number. In this case we can change the variable's value as many time as we want to because it's declared as `var` but we can't change it's type. 

``` swift
meaningOfLife = "Forty two"
```
This is trying to assing a *string* to a variable that is an *integer*, which is not allowed. 

So Swift as language requires we keep our types specific and consistent throughout our properties. If part of your code requires a *String*, Swift's type-safety prevents you from passing an *Int* by mistake.

#### Type inference
- Cool thing about Swift is that you don’t have to rely on defining all types explicitly because it uses **type-inference**, this means that the compiler is able to deduce the type of a specific expression autmatically when it compiles your code, it does this by examining the values provided. 
- An example of type inference is assinging a literal value to a constant or a variable. Swift is able to work out the type for you instead of you having to explicitly define it (more on how this works in this post I wrote about [Swift Literals]( https://dev.to/lareenmelo/swift-literals-2i66)). Example: 
``` swift
let meaningOfLife = 42 // meaningOfLife is inferred to be of type Int
```

### CONSTANTS

- Constant variables don’t change once they’re set. They're declared using the `let` keyword. Example: `let taylor = "Swift"`
- If you try to change our taylor constant variable in Xcode it will refuse to run your code, it’s not safe.
- It is recomended to generally use let for our variables unless we're sure we want to change a value.

### TYPE ANNOTATION
- You can use type annotation when definining your variables. Which is explicitly defining a variable so we don't rely on type inference. Example: `let album: String = "Reputation"`
#### Why does Swift have type annotations?
- Sometimes it's not as obvious to Swift what type should be used
- It's useful when we want Swift a differenty from its default.
- When we don't want to assing a value just yet. 

And remember kids, Swift always plays it safe! :v: