# Day 12

### HANDLING MISSING DATA
- Optionals to handling missing data, when there’s no value at all
- To make a type optional, add a question mark after it
```swift
var age: Int? = nil
```
- In Swift, **nil** represents missing data

### UNWRAPPING OPTIONALS
- Optionals might containt info or they might be nil (nothing at all)
- To check for the info of an optional we must unwrap it first
- Unwrapping an optional means, to look inside the optional to see what's there

```swift
var name: String? = nil

if let unwrapped = name {
    print("\(unwrapped.count) letters")
} else {
    print("Missing name.")
}
```

### UNWRAPPING WITH GUARD
- Just like using `if let` statement to unwrap an optional, you can use `guard let` statement
```swift
func greet(_ name: String?) {
    guard let unwrapped = name else {
        print("You didn't provide a name!")
        return
    }

    print("Hello, \(unwrapped)!")
}
```
-  Wtih guard, you can use your unwrapped optional after the guard code

### FORCE UNWRAPPING
- Automatically unwraps an optional without checking whether it is nil or not.

```swift
let num = Int(str)!
```
- You should only force unwrap when you're sure it's safe. This is often called `the crash operator` :tongue:

### IMPLICITLY UNWRAPPED OPTIONALS
```swift
let age: Int! = nil
```
- Because they are explicitly unwrapped, you don’t have to unwrap them to use them, you can just use them. **However**, if you try to use them and they have no value, your code crashes.

### NIL COALESCING
```swift
let user = username(for: 15) ?? "Anonymous"
```
- Unwraps optional and returns the value inside if any. If there’s no value then a default value is used instead 

### OPTIONAL CHAINING
- a.b?.c if b has no value, swift will ignore the rest of the line, and return nil immediately, else, it will be unwrapped and execution will continue

```swift
let names = ["John", "Paul", "George", "Ringo"]
let beatle = names.first?.uppercased()
```
### OPTIONAL TRY
- `try?` 
    - Changes throwing functions into functions that return an optional
    - If the function throws an error, nil will be the result otherwise you'll get the value wrapped as an optional.
```swift
if let result = try? checkPassword("password") {
    print("Result was \(result)")
} else {
    print("D'oh.")
}
```
- `try!`
    - Only use try! when your function doesn't throw an error, otherwise it'll crash. 
```swift
try! checkPassword("sekrit")
print("OK!")
```

### FAILABLE INITIALIZERS
- An init that might work or might not
    
```swift
struct Person {
    var id: String

    init?(id: String) {
        if id.count == 9 {
            self.id = id
        } else {
            return nil
        }
    }
}
```
### TYPECASTING 
- According to Apple, type casting is a way to check the type of an instance, or to treat that instance as a different superclass or subclass from somewhere else in its own class hierarchy.
```swift
let pets = [Fish(), Dog(), Fish(), Dog()]

for pet in pets {
    if let dog = pet as? Dog {
        dog.makeNoise()
    }
}
```

:rofl:
