# Day 23

### WHY DOES SWIFTUI USES STRUCT FOR VIEWS?
- First, becase of performance: structs are faster and simpler than classes (Iinheritance gives structs the power over class in terms of simplicity).
- Structs forces us to think about isolating state in a clean way. Classes properties are mutable so they can change and be updated, so how will swift now when something changed?
- These views that don’t mutate over time

### WHAT IS BEHIND THE MAIN SWIFTUI VIEW? 
- Behind our content view there is a `UIHostingController,` which is a bridge between UIKit and SwiftUI.
- **Mindset**: what you see is what we have, it is not recommended to edit what's behind the main view, so we should think of it as there's nothing, just what we see is what we have.

### WHY MODIFIER ORDER MATTERS
- Whenever we apply a modifier we create a new view iwth the changes applied (we don’t modify, we create) rather than setting a property to the view.
- **USEFUL** print(type(of: self.body)) to look at the structure of a view with its modifiers. 
- Every time we modify a view swift uses generics to apply those changes, so they keep stacking up within that generics the more modifiers we add  
- An important side effect of using modifiers is that we can apply the same effect multiple times: each one simply adds to whatever was there before.

### WHY DOES SWIFTUI USE `some View` FOR ITS VIEW TYPE?
- Opaque return type (`some View`): one specific type that conforms to the view type but we don’t want to say what
    - `some View vs. View`: With returning some view we must always return the same type and we don’t always know what type is, the compiler does.
- First reason is important because of performance: swift needs to look for changes in our view and understand them, so change the type of view that is adds more complexity to the compiler
- The second reason (even though we don’t know what view type is going back, the compiler does) because swift ui builds up its data using ModifiedContent
- View protocol has an associated type to it. It’s like an array, we can’t create an array without a type. So it’s like a placeholder for a view type. 
#### HOW DOES SWIFT UI WORKS WITH VSTACK IF IT DOESNT ANSWER THE “what kind of content does it have?” QUESTION WHEN RETURNING FOR SOME VIEW
- SwiftUI silently creates a TupleView for the items within the VStack `TupleView<(C0, C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, C7, C8, C9)>` :exploding_head:

### CONDITIONAL MODIFIERS
- Modifiers that apply only when a certain condition is met. USING TERNARY OPERATOR `foregroundColor(useRedText ? .red : .blue)`.
- The some view receives one specific view. We can change it mid randomly so pay attention to the modified content generic. 

### ENVIRONMENT MODIFIERS
- Modifiers can be applied to containers, so that allows us to add modifiers to many other views at the same time. 
- However if any of those Childs contain the same modifier, priority is given to the child’s modifier.
- Modifiers like blur() are regular modifiers which means that any child having this modifier just gets included in the parent’s modifier

### CUSTOM MODIFIERS
- To create a custom modifier create a ViewModifier and call it in our main code using modifier(viewmodifier())
```swift
struct Watermark: ViewModifier {
    var text: String

    func body(content: Content) -> some View {
        ZStack(alignment: .bottomTrailing) {
            content
            Text(text)
                .font(.caption)
                .foregroundColor(.white)
                .padding(5)
                .background(Color.black)
        }
    }
}

extension View {
    func watermarked(with text: String) -> some View {
        self.modifier(Watermark(text: text)) // the modifier modifier (lol) let's us apply any type of modifier to a view

    }
}


// applying it
Color.blue
    .frame(width: 300, height: 200)
    .watermarked(with: "Hacking with Swift")
```
:cactus:
