# Day 36

### WHY @STATE ONLY WORKS WITH STRUCTS
- `@State` is used to track local structs properties changes rather than external classes changes. When you want to share data between different views, `@State` won't be useful to track these changes.  
```swift
struct User {
    var firstName = "Bilbo"
    var lastName = "Baggins"
}

struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var user = User()

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            Text("Your name is \(user.firstName) \(user.lastName).")

            TextField("First name", text: $user.firstName)
            TextField("Last name", text: $user.lastName)
        }
    }
}
```
-  This is because structs only work as copies, not reference like classes, so they're different. Locally, that `@State` property won't be able to reinvoke the body property in the local struct because nothing really changed locally. 

### SHARING UI STATE WITH OBSERVEDOBJECT

- Changing to a class won't make up this because change in a class won't trigger the  `@State` , because Swift won't notice this change the body property will not be reinvoked. To work through this we can use the `ObservedObject` property wrapper.
```swift
class User: ObservableObject {
    @Published var firstName = "Bilbo"
    @Published var lastName = "Baggins"
}

struct ContentView: View {
    @ObservedObject var user = User()

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            Text("Your name is \(user.firstName) \(user.lastName).")

            TextField("First name", text: $user.firstName)
            TextField("Last name", text: $user.lastName)
        }
    }
}
```
- `ObservedObject` helps us fix the problem above, we need to tell SwiftUI when parts of our class changes (these parts being the parts we'd like for the body property to be reinvoked). To make this work we add `@Published` to these properties in our classe,s any of the SwiftUI views watching these properties will be notified of any change.
- These views will be able to know which classes are sending the notification by adding the `@ObservedObject` property wrapper to our instance of the class (a class needs to conform to the `ObservableObject` protocol before it can be an  `@ObservedObject`)

:grapes:
